# Ioan Bălan --- 2346

> *Convergence T-plus 28 days, 19 hours, 29 minutes*  
> *(Castor--Lagrange transmission delay: 30 days, 14 hours, 36 minutes)*

May made it through dinner --- Ioan was heartened to see that she'd actually eaten all of the chicken soup ey'd made --- before padding off to a beanbag to curl up. She kept up a  conversation for a few minutes while Ioan cleaned, but even that tapered off to silence. When next ey looked back, the skunk was asleep.

Every time ey'd left her to sleep out on the beanbag in the past, though, she'd spent the next day disoriented and moody --- ey suspected this was part of what she'd meant when she said she slept better next to someone all those years ago --- so once ey finished the (unnecessary but meditative) task of cleaning, ey knelt beside the beanbag, wormed eir arms beneath her, and scooped her up.

She made a sort of drowsy chirping noise as ey lifted her, hugging her arms around eir shoulders for the short journey to the bedroom. Long as her tail was, ey had to be careful not to step on any of her fur with it hanging limply, almost to the ground.

Once there, ey helped her out of her clothes, unsteady as she was, and then tucked her into bed, leaning down to put a kiss on her cheek.

"Ioan?"

"Yes?"

"Can you stay?"

Ey nodded, forking off a copy to finish cleaning up and taking notes. After a few minutes of eir own bedtime routine, ey slipped into bed with her. Ey was certainly tired enough, ey realized.

And so now, back at home, back in their own bed, alone together, May and Ioan had the conversation ey felt they truly needed. They talked quietly, almost *sotto voce*, now that it was dark and comfortable and they were no longer surrounded by the loud, raucous colors of Douglas's field. They shared their kisses, their small touches. They reaffirmed, in so many small, unspoken ways, their love for each other, and they talked.

"What do you think they are learning?" May murmured, nose-tip poking up against Ioan's chin.

Ey had to speak carefully to respond, lest ey bump her snout. "Who can say? Perhaps they are learning, perhaps they are teaching."

"Poetic."

"There are Odists involved, it's going to be poetic through and through."

She laughed and poked em in the belly with a claw. "Jerk."

"That's me, yeah," ey said, grinning and nudging her muzzle this way and that with eir chin. "The Odists are learning how to manipulate new species. Tycho's learning about the stars. I can't speak to Sarah, but Codrin is along for the ride."

"Did ey have much more to say about eir doubts?"

"A little. Ey's still feeling more caught up in the events than an actual participant, but I think ey's also starting to look for ways out of the cycle. I don't know if ey has picked up any specific ideas on how to take charge, but that ey has decided to do something in the first place is change enough."

The skunk nodded. "You are a careful lot, but it is nice to see when you do become more assertive."

"We lack your flair," ey said, ruffling up some of her fur.

"I also enjoy that, do not get me wrong. Not everything needs flair." She perked up, dotted her nose against eir chin, and asked, "You said something about time modification earlier, but I was distracted and did not think to ask about it. What does that mean?"

"Oh, right. It sounds like the Artemisians don't fork, and instead rely on the ability to change how fast they experience time. Individuals or groups can speed up their perception so that the world around them seems to slow down, that sort of thing."

There was a long moment's silence, and were it not for the shallowness of her breathing, ey might have thought May had fallen asleep. Eventually, she whispered, "I do not like that."

Ioan dipped eir chin enough to bump eir nose against hers. "Codrin said Dear got quite upset about it, too. It warned em that there would be two Odists among the emissaries and that ey should watch out."

She remained still, no reciprocating press of nose to nose. She continued in her whisper. "Once, when I was in school, I performed in a play that used the works of Emily Dickinson throughout. I still remember it. Time feels so vast that were if not For an Eternity--- I fear me this Circumference Engross my Finity---"

Ey remained quiet as ey mulled over the words. The archaic language felt opaque to em, but, as ey prowled through synonyms, ey began to piece together meaning. "You've mentioned eternity before in the context of getting lost. This sounds almost relieved, though, that eternity exists, lest everything get too overwhelming."

"There was no eternity in there, Ioan. Time was beyond vast. I *was* engrossed. There was no me left. When we were pulled out, we were finally confronted with eternity again."

"'We'?"

May took a while to respond. "Michelle and the author of the Ode."

Ey nodded, letting the comment about the Name slip by, asking instead, "And being stuck in a place with malleable time would bring back a lot of that?"

"Yes. Codrin is right to be careful. The clade struggles enough with stability as it is." She broke the tension of the moment by licking eir chin. "On a happier note, In Dreams mentioned a hypothesis about the struggles we've had with memory."

"Oh?"

"Well, happier for the System, if not for us. I guess she has hunted down some other clades that have been having problems. She says there are uniting factors, such as a weaker boundary between subconscious and conscious, a greater sense of the numinous, and so on. I am too sleepy to remember the details, but she is looking into it." The skunk giggled. "She says we should get therapy."

"Oh, you definitely should," ey teased. "Maybe this Sarah Genet is still on Lagrange. That's what she does."

"She is a therapist?"

Ey nodded.

A moment's hesitation, and then May nodded. "I let In Dreams know."

"Good. The more minds working on this, the better."

"Are you really that worried, my dear?"

Ey frowned, shrugged. "That's part of it. More, I just feel helpless. I'm not worried about you going sideways any time soon, honestly, and certainly hope you don't at all, but should that happen, watching helplessly would be...well, it's a big fear of mine."

May hugged herself closer to em, snout once again ducking beneath eir chin. "I understand. I am stuck with the related fear of losing control. I do not like the feeling of not being in control of my emotions, even for these brief periods, but if that were to just become my life..."

After she trailed off, ey tightened eir arms around her, brushing fingertips through fur.

They lay like that in the quiet and the dark. Eir fork apparently finished up with eir notes and quit, but given the topics of conversation and lack of any insistence on behalf of the instance, ey declined to accept the merge. Ey did not want to be distracted from the simple task of petting May, of enjoying the feeling of having her back.

"May?"

The skunk poked her nose against eir collarbone. "Mm?" She sounded half asleep.

"I really can't lose you. You know that right?" Ey felt her tense in eir arms, but continued, "I said ages ago that I'm not built for a life with death in it. That's why I'm here. That's why I uploaded in the first place, to get away from that."

"Ioan," she said, voice hoarse. "I already--"

"I know, you already promised. I believe you. I'm not trying to berate you, I'm trying to say I love you."

"Ioan Bălan, if you make me cry again, I will smother you in your sleep."

Ey laughed. "It sounds like it's already too late."

"Thin fucking ice, buddy." May sniffled and squirmed around until she could tuck back against eir front. "I love you too, my dear, top to bottom and front to back."

As ey settled in for sleep, kissing the backs of the skunk's ears, ey marveled that ey could only *remember* the Ioan who never thought to form attachments, who could never remember to ask May if they were in a relationship, who continually wondered how she wound up in eir life, could only remember em as some other person. Ey could only remember em as though from a distance. That Ioan was gone. Ey had slipped away into the past while the Ioan ey was now wasn't looking, and had never come back. Ey wished em luck, this younger version of emself. Ey wished em happiness and fulfillment. And, should that Ioan ever find emself struck by the wonder of love, ey wished em courage in the face of it.

This Ioan, the one ey was now, understood the value in attachments, and yet ey could still marvel, twenty years on, at just how much more complete ey was with May in eir life.

