# Codrin Bălan#Artemis --- 2346

> *Convergence T-minus 1 day, 4 hours, 7 minutes*

The Artemisians had continued to fine-tune the new setup of the meeting space for the emissaries, so that the Odists' beds were no longer in the same room as their half of the table. Now, there was a small, stone-paved unison room  for their half of the table, at the back of which sat a low bench for sitting and talking, as well as a pitcher and glasses of water. To the side of that, a short hallway led to the two unison bedrooms.

That True Name and Answers Will Not Help had requested separate bedrooms had felt notable to Codrin, though ey could not put eir finger on why. Perhaps one or both of them were having a hard enough time even while sleeping that it was keeping the other awake? Answers Will Not Help certainly looked as though she'd not slept since arriving.

Both Odists had taken to spending any break longer than five minutes laying down, and ey'd taken it as eir task to ensure that they were up and moving a minute or so before the meeting resumed.

One upside of this, however, was that it gave em as much latitude as ey wanted to talk with Tycho and Sarah without feeling like ey was leaving True Name and Answers Will Not Help behind.

Or, ey realized, like ey needed to hide anything from them.

"So. Day three."

Tycho groaned. "Yeah, though I feel like we've been here for at least a week by now."

"Might as well have been. The room is pinned at +0.2, so we're already given far more time than we might have on an ordinary day."

"At least it's easy to take a long, lazy break," Sarah said. "But yes. Day three, I guess. What are your thoughts, Codrin?"

Ey leaned back against the column outside the unison room, arms crossed, and looked up at the clear sky above the open courtyard. The blue was more intense than ey remembered from Earth or any of the sims ey'd been in. Ey always felt as though ey was falling up into it, whenever ey stared up like this.

"I'm tired," ey said at last. "Some of that's from just how long it feels like we've been running, and how I feel like I need to be *on* for all of that time, but part of it is our other emissaries."

"Oh?"

"Them being so...is unwell the right word?"

Sarah nodded, "Maybe, yes. Unwell. Struggling?"

"Right, yeah. Them struggling so much means that I have to be an active part of the discussions as well as focused on them. There's nothing I can do to help them, but I still feel like I need to be attuned to everyone around me."

"Is that part of your amanuensis duties?" Tycho asked.

Ey frowned, silent, as ey thought. "Perhaps. It is part of what's going on here, isn't it?"

"It is," Sarah said. "But you don't need to be a complete sponge, soaking everything up."

"I don't know that I can just turn that off."

"And that's okay. It's less about turning it off than mitigating it. Find the times where you can turn down your engagement and use those where you can. Find the things that don't require your full attention and let them go, even if only for a few seconds."

Ey smiled, feeling the tiredness in eir cheeks. "You were a therapist, weren't you? Maybe I should steal some of your time after this is all over."

"Gladly," she said, nodding. "I've been thinking about restarting my practice, anyhow. It's been too long of just lounging around on the System."

"Certainly got a pile of work for yourself now," Tycho said. "What are your thoughts, while we're on the subject?"

"This is going to sound weird," she said after a moment's thought. "But it's way more normal than I expected. It's a strange situation, to be sure, but it's still just a meeting between people who are trying to figure each other out. They're alien, but not so far as to be completely unintelligible. It's almost prosaic."

"Think it's going well?" Codrin asked.

"As well as it can be, all things considered. We've not wound up in any thorny patches or anything."

Tycho nodded. "Agreed, though I have to admit that I'm getting kind of bored. Codrin told me I should steal some time with Stolon, and I've been doing that whenever I can, but the rest is just...boring. I want to be able to engage, but it's just all over my head, and when I do start feeling like I'm getting a hold on it, Turun Ka or True Name will nudge us back 'on topic'."

"'On topic' meaning history and politics and the like?"

He nodded. "I knew that going into this that #Castor would be having much more fun than I would."

"Well, let's see if we can find you something to focus on," Sarah said.

He tilted his head, frowning. "How, though? I can't exactly ask us to just start talking about the science side."

"Well, no, but you can keep an eye on data. Maybe look out for dates and the like and start using that with what we *do* know of the science behind everything. Start thinking about where they might have been coming from before the...uh, gravity assist? Is that it?"

His frown deepened, but he nodded.

"Start thinking about what's in that direction and how long it might have taken them to get here."

"You can probably keep track of the math involved with the time scale better than any of us, too," Codrin added. "So you can see where there might have been inflection points in history and if that might've had to do with any of their travel. If there were big societal changes, then maybe--"

Tycho held up his hand, and Codrin watched as his eyes lost focus, staring into nothing for a long few seconds, breathing rapidly in some faster time.

Ey looked to Sarah, who shrugged.

"Sorry, skewed faster," he mumbled. "You just reminded me of something, is all. There's a lot beneath the plane of the ecliptic relative to us, but only a little bit of it is close for them to have plausibly passed by it. A few of those systems are kind of interesting."

"Interesting?" ey asked.

"Like, stuff we've been keeping an eye on for possibly having life, that sort of thing."

"Maybe Artante's system?"

He shook his head. "Closer than that, I think."

Codrin stood up straight again, tugging eir blouse straight. "Are you saying you think they might've stopped by somewhere else?"

"It's a very big 'might'," he said. "They could just have been using the stars for slingshots, after all."

"But it's a possibility."

He nodded.

Sarah shook her head. "To make sure I'm following, you think they may have suspected there was life elsewhere? Do you think they might have run across other possible societies and not had them join them as a race?"

"Right. Could be they just hadn't started uploading." He hesitated, then added, "Or that they had, but didn't want to join or didn't make the cut."

Codrin rubbed eir hands over eir face, willing away the tiredness that kept threatening to come back. Like Tycho, every time ey felt like ey was getting a hold on the situation ey was stuck in, some other bit of info would be brought to light and eir grasp would slip once more.

Now here this was. Perhaps the Artemisians had run across more than just races two through four on their journey. Perhaps there had been failed convergences, not counted among the existing three and the fourth they were living through.

Tycho's comment about 'not making the cut' carried with it additional implications, as well. It implied that there was a barrier to entry that one had to pass. This, in turn, implied that there were a set of requirements for getting to join as a race. Unspoken ones.

There may very well be specific steps they had to take that had never been provided to them. Hadn't ey picked up a sense of that from the letter so long ago? 'You have asked the correct question'?

When ey shook away the rumination, ey found both Tycho and Sarah staring at em. "Sorry if I was mumbling. Tycho, hold off on actually asking about this for now, but keep thinking about it, alright? At least let me run it past True Name first."

Tycho nodded.

"On that note, we should probably start getting ready again," Sarah said.

They broke after that, Tycho walking another lap around the courtyard and Sarah making for the pitcher of water, while Codrin went to rouse the Odists.

Ey fetched True Name first. The skunk was already awake --- or perhaps had never managed to fall asleep for the nap she always talked about --- and sitting up blearily in bed.

"Good afternoon, Mx. Bălan."

"Morning," ey corrected gently. "Next break will be lunch. Manage to get any sleep?"

She shook her head. "I am guessing that it is time to head back?"

Ey nodded. "I have a question about a topic Tycho brought up, first, if that's alright. If you need to wake up a bit more first, that's fine. I can ask later, but I'd at least like it on the docket."

"I do not know that I will be feeling any better later," she said, attempting a smile. "Ask me now, and if I am unable to answer, ask me again at lunch."

"Alright." Ey sat on the chair next to True Name's bed. "Sarah and I suggested that Tycho start making educated guesses about their route and if that might be reflected in historical inflection points."

The skunk frowned, but nodded for em to continue.

"He mentioned that there might have been some planets on their path that were inhabited but not welcomed as one of the races."

"Ones with life? Ones with uploads?"

Ey shrugged. "Perhaps, yes. In particular, he said that if the race had uploaded, maybe they wouldn't want to join, or wouldn't have, in his words, 'made the cut'."

The skunk stared down at her paws in her lap, the claws on her thumbs tapping gently together. "That is a good observation from our friend. What question do you have for me about it?"

"Should we ask more directly about it? I told him not to until I'd talked with you."

"Thank you. Yes, he should hold off for now. It may be best to ask about the sentiments within the society during those inflection points first. Coming at it sideways like that will allow us to phrase the question about other convergences more effectively."

Ey nodded. "If there was strife, it may not have been a good convergence, you mean."

"Precisely." The skunk wobbled to her feet, accepting Codrin's offer of a hand to steady herself. "Come. Let us see how Why Ask Questions is doing. Better, I hope."

"Given the differences between our systems, the focus on time skew versus forking, I'd like to see what some of the political and sociological differences there are that resulted from that," Codrin said, once the meeting began again.

Both Iska and True Name sat up straighter.

"This is broad-large-all-encompassing topic, recorder Codrin Bălan." Turun Ko angled its head down and to the side, a move that appeared either confused or perhaps condescending. "Please restrict-refine."

"Well, okay." Ey tapped the end of eir pen against eir lower lip, considering. "Perhaps we can begin with how common working with skew is among everyday individuals. We have our concept of dissolution strategies, based on how one approaches forking, after all."

There was a blurred conference between the Artemisians, then Iska said, "There is a spectrum of approaches to skew. Some rarely utilize it, some utilize only fast-time to complete tasks or slow-time to pass long stretches of time out of boredom or to wait for a specific event. Some, such as myself, utilize skew for enjoyment."

"These map loosely to your concept of taskers, trackers, and dispersionistas," Artante added. "We noticed similar during the third convergence, though the concept remained only within fourthrace, and died out within a century of the convergence. I was reminded of the topic by one of your early letters."

"I remember you mentioned that fourthrace had forking," True Name said, voice tightly controlled. "Was the transition from that to skew difficult for those members of fourthrace that joined?"

"For some, yes. There was one recorded instance of a member of fourthrace becoming so despondent about the lack of forking that they exited the system."

True Name and Answers Will Not Help looked at each other, letting the silence that followed speak for itself.

Codrin allowed the moment to pass before continuing. "Thank you. For what occupations there are --- I believe you also described them as 'intensive leisure activities' --- is there any particular expectation regarding one's approach to skew?"

"'Expectation'?" Turun Ko asked.

"I suppose activities have their own requirements for how one utilizes skew. For instance, representative Iska doubtless relies on it quite heavily. Does knowing one's interest tell you about their skew habits? Is there pressure for one to not take up an activity due to the skew habits one has already formed?"

Iska was practically purring at this turn in the conversation. "Had one of us asked that question, I would have said 'no', but hearing it from you has made me think about it in a new way. I would have said that one simply would not think to take up that activity, but now that you say such, I think that this is the case. I am uncomfortable with not utilizing skew, yes, but for activities that are pinned to common time such as preparing food and performing music, there is an expectation that I would not be a good chef or musician, yes. Were I to pick up an interest in cooking, I would be looked on with a small amount of concern. One would say about me: 'I hope that they do not burn the food by shifting to slow-time' or 'I expect that their food will be very rushed'."

Codrin grinned as ey took down notes of the answer. "One of my romantic partners, as an instance artist, has stated that it can't understand what a life without profligate forking would look like, but has never said that it feels as though it is not able to take part in another profession. That said, there are several interests or professions that one would not expect taskers or even trackers to go into. Many would sneer at a tasker trying to go into instance artistry. Does the same apply here? Are there more interests or professions that are out of reach for those who do not use skew than for those who use skew often?"

Another, longer blurred conference followed this question, during which True Name gave em a tired smile. "Excellent questions, Mx. Bălan."

"We have decided that there has not been much thought put into this topic, but that our instinct would be to say yes, the interests which belong to those heavy users of skew are more specific and thus more likely to carry some level of prestige that might be out of reach for those who prefer to remain in common time."

Sarah sat forward, leaning on her elbows on the table. "Can you expand on 'prestige', here? Are there interests that are considered less prestigious? Do some interests reflect poorly on the individual?"

"Please confirm: do you mean social-stratification-caste?" Turun Ko said, and both Codrin and True Name rushed to write a note.

"I'd also like to know about that, yes, but let's come back to that later. In this instance, I was wondering there are interests that are seen as distasteful or silly."

"We have decided that there are not any that are seen as distasteful," Turun Ka said after another conferral with its delegates. "But there are many that are seen as frivolous. Some view contemplative or spiritual life as frivolous, particularly among secondrace, which is very old."

Codrin frowned, making a note to ask about that later. They had the concept of spirituality, and even the concept of a life lived in contemplation. It raised several other questions besides, such as why it was that the second oldest race bore the brunt of that assumption, and why it had been implied that firstrace was immune. Were religions shared between the races? Were religions time-bound? In eir 128 years of life, time had run out on countless end-of-the-world predictions.

Ey shook the rumination from eir eyes in time to hear True Name asking, "What is the population's view of the Council of Eight?"

Turun Ka rocked its head from side to side. Amusement, Codrin#Castor had written. "We are seen as almost vestigial except during convergences. What guidance we provide we do so through advisory not--"

It was interrupted by a bang as Answers Will Not Help, who had been nearly in a stupor up until this point, slammed her fists down on the table. "I must keep no veil between me and my words. I must set no stones between me and my actions!"

There was a tense moment of silence.

"Apologies," she said, rubbing her hands over her face and then yelping as a wave of skunk washed beneath them. "I cannot stop myself from speaking."

Artante nodded slowly. "Would you like to take a brief break, representative Why Ask Questions?"

"I...yes."

"We shall reconvene in five minutes common time," Turun Ka said. "We wish you the best, representative Why Ask Questions."

Sarah helped her to her feet and walked her down the hall to her room.

True Name slouched down in her seat with a wave of Michelle rolling across her form.

"Are you alright?" ey asked, patting her paw/hand.

She jolted away with a quiet grunt, pulling her hand back as though burned. She rolled her head to the side against the back of the chair looking steadily at em. "I will be okay, Mx. Bălan. Thank you for your concern. Please refrain from touching me when my form is shifting, though. It is quite uncomfortable."

"Apologies." Ey bowed her head. Something about the skunk's voice brooked no further questioning.

"You asked some very good questions today. I am quite happy that you decided to come along."

"It's an honor."

She rolled her head back once more to stare up at the ceiling. "Have you heard further from your counterpart back on Castor?"

"Ey mentioned that the common tongue is remarkably well-preserved for being on the system for four thousand years, and suggested that there might be political implications behind that."

"Right, yes," True Name said, closing her eyes. "Should Why Ask Questions start feeling better, perhaps we can have that discussion more in depth, but I will ask either way. Anything else?"

Codrin#Castor had clearly picked up on eir hint, and had hinted in return. There would be much to think about and ey had a return letter planned, as well as a discussion with the other three delegates. It had been a good guess on #Castor's part that Tycho had been the one to spot the subterfuge.

"No," ey said. "They wish us well."
